Networking p2/7

TCP = REQUIRES HANDSHAKE 
ERROR CHECKING 
BIDIRECTIONAL FLOW 
PRIOR CONNECTION NEEDED

OSI MODEL - 

? Communication model - provides a standard way devices communicate over a network 
- Ensures devices over the network can communicate and understand each other 

Pros - communication Model
- Application independence - so that u wouldnt have to create different versions of the same app
- W/out standard model - apps would have to understand the underlining network 
- Upgrading network equipment is easier  “as they talk the same language”
- Innovation can happen independently without affecting the entire model 


7 LAYERS - Application , presentation, sessions , transport , network , data link , physical 


1. Physical - ( physical structure like fibre ) - transmits raw bit streams over a physical medium - but everyone can receive that data - components ( cables , switches , network interface cards ) - unordered/random
2. Data link - (ethernet ) - layer provides node to node data transfer & ensures data got to the right node - puts data packets in frames ensuring they get to the right place - components ( MAC addresses , switches ) 
3. Network layer - manages how data is sent - best path over a network - manages packet forwarding including routers - components ( ip addresses / routers )
4. Transport - manages reliable data transfer to the upper layers - components (TCP / UDP )
5. Session layer - manages sessions between applications - establishes + terminates connections -- components ( session management protocols)
6. Presentation layer - makes sure data is in a reasonable/formatted layout + data is unable - components( encryption / data formatting )
7. Application layer - network services to directly to apps end user layer - components ( HTTP , FTP )


All People Seem To Need Data Processing

Physical - data is sent via bits thur fibres 
Data link - data converted into frames and given MAC address 
Network - data is given ip address and fgures out where server is 
Transport - uses tcp ( protocol ) , split into segments , given port number 
Session - secure session is started
Presentation - data is encrypted and formatted 
Application - post request 

1. Data is converted into digital bits 
2. Data is then given a MAC address and converted into frames 
3. Data is then converted from frames into an ip packet/address and has to figure out what server to go to 
4. Data is then thru tcp protocol given a port number and is told where to go , split into segments tcp segments 
5. Request comes in to secure a session now 
6. Data is then formatted and encrypted 
7. Data is presented and interpreted request 


TCP/IP MODEL 4 LAYERS
- Application layer - network protocols work here - http
- Transport - e2e coomucaiton and data transfer / ump 
- Internet layer - logical addressing and routing data from different networks  - ip address ( handles the moving of ur package thru multiple ways 
- Network access layer - encompasses layer 1/2 of the OSI model with the layer consisting of ethernet , wireless LAN 


OSI Layers ( sender POV)
 * User sends a POST request with JSON data to the HTTPS server *

HTTP - is a message to ur client (browser, app, API) sends to server asking it to do something 
GET -> get data 
POST -> send data 
PUT -> update data 
DELETE -> delete data 
