Kubernetes services: are a stable network endpoint that allow you to route traffic and access your pods no matter what.

Services use labels to select the right pods and route traffic to them (i.e front-end pod )

Services also handle all networking behind the scenes 


K8 Services workflow ?

1. Pods ( frontend pods , backend pods )
2. Each pods is labeled ( app: frontend ,  app: backend )

3. K8 service is created - then selects pods based on labels  
  = the service for “app: frontend”  targets all frontend pods   

4. K8 service provides stable IP / DNS name
5. Traffic is sent to that service and is routed to the correct pods 

* Traffic - USER gaining access or other services calling on each with *



Why are services important ? 
￼
- They allow groups of pods to be connected / talk to each other 
- I.e frontend , backend , database ( groups of pods )
- Services use labels to identify different groups of pods 


* if you want to scale or upgrade part of your app services services make sure that traffic is sent to the right group of pods w/out interruptions *


What are the different types of services ?

1. Cluster IP - gives you stable internal IP address - so pods can use to talk to each other inside the cluster  - FRONTEND - BACKEND 

kubectl create deployment frontend —image nginx —port=80 (if you want replicas use —replicas) 
kubectl create deployment backend —image nginx —port‎=80

Kubectl expose deployment frontend —type=clusterIP --port 80 —name=my-frontend-service
Kubectl expose deployment backend —type=clusterIP --port=80 —name=my-backend-service  


How to edit a deployment yaml ?

kubectl get service -o wide    kubectl edit deployment frontend 
 
 
2. Node port - exposes your service on a specific port on each node inside the cluster = simple way to ensure accessibility from outside the cluster 

- Client request to node ip address on node port 30000- above  
- traffic is sent to node port on the worker node 
- traffic is sent to relevant service 
- traffic is sent to target port on the relevant pod 

 kubectl create deployment frontend —image nginx —port=80  kubectl create deployment backend —image nginx —port‎ = 80
Kubectl expose deployment frontend —type=NodePort --port 80 —name=my-frontend-service
Kubectl expose deployment backend —type=NodePort --port=80 —name=my-backend-service 
kubectl apply -f yourfile.yaml


 3.  Load balancer - typically used in cloud environments - so w/out a cluster in the cloud it wouldn’t work 

- So if u create a Internal LB -  distributes traffic to your pods 
- It automatically creates an external load balancer exposes service to the internet and distributes traffic to internal load balancer 
